<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" dir="ltr" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<title>Copyright</title>
<link href="../styles/9781000426359.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006665500" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="copyright-page">
<p class="copyt"><span aria-label="iv" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_iv" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Fifth edition published 2022</p>
<p class="copy">by CRC Press</p>
<p class="copy">6000 Broken Sound Parkway NW, Suite 300, Boca Raton, FL 33487-2742</p>
<p class="copyt">and by Routledge</p>
<p class="copy">2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon, OX14 4RN</p>
<p class="copyt">© 2022 Taylor &amp; Francis Group, LLC</p>
<p class="copyt">CRC Press is an imprint of Taylor &amp; Francis Group, LLC</p>
<p class="copyt">Reasonable efforts have been made to publish reliable data and information, but the author and publisher cannot assume responsibility for the validity of all materials or the consequences of their use. The authors and publishers have attempted to trace the copyright holders of all material reproduced in this publication and apologize to copyright holders if permission to publish in this form has not been obtained. If any copyright material has not been acknowledged please write and let us know so we may rectify in any future reprint.</p>
<p class="copyt">Except as permitted under U.S. Copyright Law, no part of this book may be reprinted, reproduced, transmitted, or utilized in any form by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying, microfilming, and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without written permission from the publishers.</p>
<p class="copyt">For permission to photocopy or use material electronically from this work, access <a href="http://www.copyright.com">www.copyright.com</a> or contact the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc. (CCC), 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400. For works that are not available on CCC please contact <a href="mailto:mpkbookspermissions@tandf.co.uk">mpkbookspermissions@tandf.co.uk</a></p>
<p class="copyt"><em>Trademark notice</em> Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered trademarks and are used only for identification and explanation without intent to infringe.</p>
<p class="copyt"><em>Library of Congress Cataloging‑in‑Publication Data</em></p>
<p class="copy">Names: Marschner, Steve, author. | Shirley, Peter, author.</p>
<p class="copy">Title: Fundamentals of computer graphics / Steve Marschner, Peter Shirley.</p>
<p class="copy">Description: 5th edition. | Boca Raton: CRC Press, 2021. | Includes bibliographical references and index. Identifiers: LCCN 2021008492 | ISBN 9780367505035 (hardback) | ISBN 9781003050339 (ebook)</p>
<p class="copy">Subjects: LCSH: Computer graphics.</p>
<p class="copy">Classification: LCC T385 .M36475 2021 | DDC 006.6—dc23</p>
<p class="copy">LC record available at <a href="https://lccn.loc.gov">https://lccn.loc.gov/2021008492</a></p>
<p class="copyt">ISBN: 978-0-367-50503-5 (hbk)<br/>ISBN: 978-0-367-50558-5 (pbk)<br/>ISBN: 978-1-003-05033-9 (ebk)</p>
<p class="copyt">Typeset in Times</p>
<p class="copy">by codeMantra</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>