<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" dir="ltr" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<title>Acknowledgments</title>
<link href="../styles/9781000426359.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006665500" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments">
<h1 id="ack"><span aria-label="xiii" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_xiii" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a epub:type="backlink" href="C02a_toc.xhtml#rack" role="doc-backlink"><span class="green">Acknowledgments</span></a></h1>
<p>The following people have provided helpful information, comments, or feedback about the various editions of this book: Ahmet Oğuz Akyüz, Josh Andersen, Beatriz Trinchãao Andrade Zeferino Andrade, Bagossy Attila, Kavita Bala, Mick Beaver, Robert Belleman, Adam Berger, Adeel Bhutta, Solomon Boulos, Stephen Chenney, Michael Coblenz, Greg Coombe, Frederic Cremer, Brian Curtin, Dave Edwards, Jonathon Evans, Karen Feinauer, Claude Fuhrer, Yotam Gingold, Amy Gooch, Eungyoung Han, Chuck Hansen, Andy Hanson, Razen Al Harbi, Dave Hart, John Hart, Yong Huang, John “Spike” Hughes, Helen Hu, Vicki Interrante, Wenzel Jakob, Doug James, Henrik Wann Jensen, Shi Jin, Mark Johnson, Ray Jones, Revant Kapoor, Kristin Kerr, Erum Arif Khan, Mark Kilgard, Fangjun Kuang, Dylan Lacewell, Mathias Lang, Philippe Laval, Joshua Levine, Marc Levoy, Howard Lo, Joann Luu, Mauricio Maurer, Andrew Medlin, Ron Metoyer, Keith Morley, Eric Mortensen, Koji Nakamaru, Micah Neilson, Blake Nelson, Michael Nikelsky, James O’Brien, Hongshu Pan , Steve Parker, Sumanta Pattanaik, Matt Pharr, Ken Phillis Jr, Nicolò Pinciroli, Peter Poulos, Shaun Ramsey, Rich Riesenfeld, Nate Robins, Nan Schaller, Chris Schryvers, Tom Sederberg, Richard Sharp, Sarah Shirley, Peter-Pike Sloan, Hannah Story, Tony Tahbaz, Jan-Phillip Tiesel, Bruce Walter, Alex Williams, Amy Williams, Chris Wyman, Kate Zebrose, and Angela Zhang.</p>
<p>Ching-Kuang Shene and David Solomon allowed us to borrow their examples. Henrik Wann Jensen, Eric Levin, Matt Pharr, and Jason Waltman generously provided images. Brandon Mansfield helped improve the discussion of hierarchical bounding volumes for ray tracing. Philip Greenspun (<a href="http://philip.greenspun.com">philip.greenspun.com</a>) kindly allowed us to use his photographs. John “Spike” Hughes helped improve the discussion of sampling theory. Wenzel Jakob’s <em>Mitsuba</em> renderer was invaluable in creating many figures. We are extremely thankful to J. W. Baker for helping create the cover Pete envisioned. In addition to being a talented artist, he was a great pleasure to work with personally.</p>
<p>Many works that were helpful in preparing this book are cited in the chapter notes. However, a few key texts that influenced the content and presentation deserve special recognition here. These include the two classic computer graphics texts from which we both learned the basics: <em>Computer Graphics: Principles &amp; Practice</em> (Foley, Van Dam, Feiner, &amp; Hughes, 1990) and <em>Computer Graphics</em> (Hearn &amp; Baker, 1986). Other texts include both of Alan Watt’s influential books (Watt, 1993, 1991), Hill’s <em>Computer Graphics Using OpenGL</em> (Francis <span aria-label="xiv" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_xiv" role="doc-pagebreak"/>S. Hill, 2000), Angel’s <em>Interactive Computer Graphics: A Top-Down Approach Using OpenGL</em> (Angel, 2002), Hugues Hoppe’s University of Washington dissertation (Hoppe, 1994), and Rogers’ two excellent graphics texts (Rogers, 1985, 1989).</p>
<p>We would like to especially thank Alice and Klaus Peters for encouraging Pete to write the first edition of this book and for their great skill in bringing a book to fruition. Their patience with the authors and their dedication to making their books the best they can be has been instrumental in making this book what it is. This book certainly would not exist without their extraordinary efforts.</p>
<p class="right1">Steve Marschner, Ithaca, NY</p>
<p class="right">Peter Shirley, Salt Lake City, UT</p>
<p class="right">February 2021</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>