<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" dir="ltr" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link href="../styles/9781000426359.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006665500" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="frontmatter">
<h1 id="preface"><span aria-label="xi" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_xi" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a epub:type="backlink" href="C02a_toc.xhtml#rpreface" role="doc-backlink"><span class="green">Preface</span></a></h1>
<p>This edition of <em>Fundamentals of Computer Graphics</em> includes substantial rewrites of the material on shading, light reflection, and path tracing, as well as many corrections throughout. This book now provides a better introduction to the techniques that go by the names of physics-based materials and physics-based rendering and are becoming predominant in actual practice. This material is now better integrated, and we think this book maps well to the way many instructors are organizing graphics courses at present.</p>
<p>The organization of this book remains substantially similar to the fourth edition. As we have revised this book over the years, we have endeavored to retain the informal, intuitive style of presentation that characterizes the earlier editions, while at the same time improving consistency, precision, and completeness. We hope the reader will find the result is an appealing platform for a variety of courses in computer graphics.</p>
<h2 id="sec1"><span class="green">About the Cover</span></h2>
<p>The cover image is from <em>Tiger in the Water</em> by J. W. Baker (brushed and air-brushed acrylic on canvas, 16” by 20”, <a href="http://www.jwbart.com">www.jwbart.com</a>).</p>
<p>The subject of a tiger is a reference to a wonderful talk given by Alain Fournier (1943–2000) at a workshop at Cornell University in 1998. His talk was an evocative verbal description of the movements of a tiger. He summarized his point:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Even though modelling and rendering in computer graphics have been improved tremendously in the past 35 years, we are still not at the point where we can model automatically a tiger swimming in the river in all its glorious details. By automatically I mean in a way that does not need careful manual tweaking by an artist/expert.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p>The bad news is that we have still a long way to go.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p>The good news is that we have still a long way to go.</p>
</blockquote>
<h2 id="sec2"><span aria-label="xii" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_xii" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span class="green">Online Resources</span></h2>
<p>The website for this book is <a href="http://www.cs.cornell.edu">http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~srm/fcg5/</a>. We will continue to maintain a list of errata and links to courses that use the book, as well as teaching materials that match the book’s style. Most of the figures in this book are in Adobe Illustrator format, and we would be happy to convert specific figures into portable formats on request. Please feel free to contact us at <a href="mailto:srm@cs.cornell.edu">srm@cs.cornell.edu</a> or <a href="mailto:ptrshrl@gmail.com">ptrshrl@gmail.com</a>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>