<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" dir="ltr" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8"/>
<title>References</title>
<link href="../styles/9781000426359.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:e0000000-0000-0000-0000-000006665500" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<section>
<h1 epub:type="title" id="references"><span aria-label="681" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_681" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a epub:type="backlink" href="C02a_toc.xhtml#rreferences" role="doc-backlink"><span class="green">References</span></a></h1>
<ol class="biblioentrylist">
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Akenine-Möller, T., Haines, E., &amp; Hoffman, N. (2008). <em>Real-Time Rendering</em> (Third ed.). Wellesley, MA: A K Peters.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Amanatides, J., &amp; Woo, A. (1987). A Fast Voxel Traversal Algorithm for Ray Tracing. In <em>Proceedings of Eurographics</em> (pp. 1–10). Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Publishers.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">American National Standard Institute. (1986). <em>Nomenclature and Definitions for Illumination Engineering.</em> ANSI Report (New York). (ANSI/IES RP-16-1986)</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Angel, E. (2002). <em>Interactive Computer Graphics: A Top-Down Approach with OpenGL</em> (Third ed.). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Appel, A. (1968). Some Techniques for Shading Machine Renderings of Solids. In <em>Proceedings of the AFIPS Spring Joint Computing Conference</em> (Vol. 32, pp. 37–45). AFIPS.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Arvo, J. (1995a). <em>Analytic Methods for Simulated Light Transport</em> (Unpublished doctoral dissertation).</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Arvo, J. (1995b). Stratified sampling of spherical triangles. In <em>Proceedings SIGGRAPH</em> (pp. 437–438).</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Ashikhmin, M., Premože, S., &amp; Shirley, P. (2000). A Microfacet-Based BRDF Generator. In <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH</em> (pp. 65–74). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Longman.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Baumgart, B. (1974, October). <em>Geometric Modeling for Computer Vision</em> (Tech. Rep. No. AIM-249). Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University AI Laboratory.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Beck, K., &amp; Andres, C. (2004). <em>Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change</em> (Second ed.). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Blinn, J. (1996). <em>Jim Blinn’s Corner</em>. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Blinn, J. F. (1976). Texture and Reflection in Computer Generated Images. <em>Communications of the ACM</em>, <em>19</em>(10), 542–547.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Bresenham, J. E. (1965). Algorithm for Computer Control of a Digital Plotter. <em>IBM Systems Journal</em>, <em>4</em>(1), 25–30.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Burley, B. (2012). Physically-based shading at disney. In <em>Proceedings of siggraph</em> (pp. 1–7).</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Campagna, S., Kobbelt, L., &amp; Seidel, H.-P. (1998). Directed Edges—A Scalable Representation for Triangle Meshes. <em>Journal of Graphics Tools</em>, <em>3</em>(4), 1–12. <span aria-label="682" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_682" role="doc-pagebreak"/></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Cleary, J., Wyvill, B., Birtwistle, G., &amp; Vatti, R. (1983). A Parallel Ray Tracing Computer. In <em>Proceedings of the Association of Simula Users Conference</em> (pp. 77–80).</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Cook, R. L., Carpenter, L., &amp; Catmull, E. (1987). The Reyes Image Rendering Architecture. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’87 Computer Graphics</em>, <em>21</em>(4), 95–102.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Cook, R. L., &amp; Torrance, K. E. (1982). A Reflectance Model for Computer Graphics. <em>ACM Transactions on Graphics</em>, <em>1</em>(1), 7–24.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Crow, F. C. (1978). The Use of Grayscale for Improved Raster Display of Vectors and Characters. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’78: Proceedings of the 5th Annual Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 1–5). New York: ACM Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Crowe, M. J. (1994). <em>A History of Vector Analysis</em>. Mineola, NY: Dover.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">DeRose, T. (1989). <em>A Coordinate-Free Approach to Geometric Programming</em> (Tech. Rep. No. 89-09-16). Seattle, WA: University of Washington.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Dobkin, D. P., &amp; Mitchell, D. P. (1993). Random-Edge Discrepancy of Supersampling Patterns. In <em>Proceedings of Graphics Interface</em> (pp. 62–69). Wellesley, MA: A K Peters &amp; Canadian Human-Computer Communications Society.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Doran, C., &amp; Lasenby, A. (2003). <em>Geometric Algebra for Physicists</em>. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Duff, T., Burgess, J., Christensen, P., Hery, C., Kensler, A., Liani, M., &amp; Villemin, R. (2017). Building an orthonormal basis, revisited. <em>Journal of Computer Graphics Techniques Vol</em>, <em>6</em>(1).</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Eberly, D. (2000). <em>3D Game Engine Design: A Practical Approach to Real-Time Computer Graphics</em>. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Ershov, S., Kolchin, K., &amp; Myszkowski, K. (2001). Rendering Pearlescent Appearance Based on Paint-Composition Modelling. <em>Computer Graphics Forum</em>, <em>20</em>(3), 227–238.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Estevez, A. C., Imageworks, S. P., &amp; Kulla, C. (n.d.). <em>Production friendly micro-facet sheen brdf</em> (Tech. Rep.). Technical Report, Sony Imageworks, 2017. Cited on.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Farin, G., &amp; Hansford, D. (2004). <em>Practical Linear Algebra: A Geometry Tool-box</em>. Wellesley, MA: A K Peters.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Foley, J. D., Van Dam, A., Feiner, S. K., &amp; Hughes, J. F. (1990). <em>Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice</em> (Second ed.). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Francis S. Hill, J. (2000). <em>Computer Graphics Using OpenGL</em> (Second ed.). Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Fujimoto, A., Tanaka, T., &amp; Iwata, K. (1986). ARTSccelerated Ray-Tracing System. <em>IEEE Computer Graphics &amp; Applications</em>, <em>6</em>(4), 16–26.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Glassner, A. (1984). Space Subdivision for Fast Ray Tracing. <em>IEEE Computer Graphics &amp; Applications</em>, <em>4</em>(10), 15–22. <span aria-label="683" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_683" role="doc-pagebreak"/></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Glassner, A. (1995). <em>Principles of Digital Image Synthesis</em>. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Goldman, R. (1985). Illicit Expressions in Vector Algebra. <em>ACM Transactions on Graphics</em>, <em>4</em>(3), 223–243.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Goldsmith, J., &amp; Salmon, J. (1987). Automatic Creation of Object Hierarchies for Ray Tracing. <em>IEEE Computer Graphics &amp; Applications</em>, <em>7</em>(5), 14–20.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Gouraud, H. (1971). Continuous Shading of Curved Surfaces. <em>Communications of the ACM</em>, <em>18</em>(6), 623–629.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hammersley, J., &amp; Handscomb, D. (1964). <em>Monte-Carlo Methods</em>. London: Methuen.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hanrahan, P., &amp; Lawson, J. (1990). A Language for Shading and Lighting Calculations. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’90: Proceedings of the 17th Annual Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 289–298). New York: ACM Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hanson, A. J. (2005). <em>Visualizing Quaternions</em>. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hausner, M. (1998). <em>A Vector Space Approach to Geometry</em>. Mineola, NY: Dover.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Havran, V. (2000). <em>Heuristic Ray Shooting Algorithms</em> (Unpublished doctoral dissertation). Czech Technical University in Prague.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">He, X. D., Heynen, P. O., Phillips, R. L., Torrance, K. E., Salesin, D. H., &amp; Greenberg, D. P. (1992). A Fast and Accurate Light Reflection Model. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’92, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>26</em>(2), 253–254.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hearn, D., &amp; Baker, M. P. (1986). <em>Computer Graphics</em>. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Heidrich, W., &amp; Seidel, H.-P. (1998). Ray-Tracing Procedural Displacement Shaders. In <em>Proceedings of Graphics Interface</em> (pp. 8–16). Wellesley, MA: A K Peters &amp; Canadian Human-Computer Communications Society.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Heitz, E. (2014). Understanding the masking-shadowing function in microfacet-based BRDFs. <em>Journal of Computer Graphics Techniques</em>, <em>3</em>(2), 32–91.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Heitz, E., &amp; d’Eon, E. (2014). Importance sampling microfacet-based bsdfs using the distribution of visible normals. In <em>Computer Graphics Forum</em> (Vol. 33, pp. 103–112).</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hoffmann, B. (1975). <em>About Vectors</em>. Mineola, NY: Dover.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hoppe, H. (1994). <em>Surface Reconstruction from Unorganized Points</em> (Unpublished doctoral dissertation). University of Washington.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Hughes, J. F., &amp; Möller, T. (1999). Building an Orthonormal Basis from a Unit Vector. <em>Journal of Graphics Tools</em>, <em>4</em>(4), 33–35.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">IEEE Standards Association. (1985). <em>IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic</em> (Tech. Rep.). New York: IEEE Report. (ANSI/IEEE Std 754-1985) <span aria-label="684" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_684" role="doc-pagebreak"/></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Immel, D. S., Cohen, M. F., &amp; Greenberg, D. P. (1986). A Radiosity Method for Non-Diffuse Environments. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’86, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>20</em>(4), 133–142.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Jansen, F. W. (1986). Data Structures for Ray Tracing. In <em>Proceedings of a Workshop Eurographics Seminars on Data Structures for Raster Graphics</em> (pp. 57–73). New York: Springer-Verlag.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Kajiya, J. T. (1986). The Rendering Equation. <em>Proc SIGGRAPH ’86 Computer Graphics</em>, <em>20</em>(4), 143–150.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Kalos, M., &amp; Whitlock, P. (1986). <em>Monte Carlo Methods, Basics</em>. New York: Wiley-Interscience.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Kay, D. S., &amp; Greenberg, D. (1979). Transparency for Computer Synthesized Images. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’79 Computer Graphics</em>, <em>13</em>(2), 158–164.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Kernighan, B. W., &amp; Pike, R. (1999). <em>The Practice of Programming</em>. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Kirk, D., &amp; Arvo, J. (1988). The Ray Tracing Kernel. In <em>Proceedings of Aus-graph.</em> Melbourne, Australia: Australian Computer Graphics Association.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Kollig, T., &amp; Keller, A. (2002). Efficient Multidimensional Sampling. <em>Computer Graphics Forum</em>, <em>21</em>(3), 557–564.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Lafortune, E. P. F., Foo, S.-C., Torrance, K. E., &amp; Greenberg, D. P. (1997). Non-Linear Approximation of Reflectance Functions. In <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’97</em> (pp. 117–126). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Lawrence, J., Rusinkiewicz, S., &amp; Ramamoorthi, R. (2004). Efficient BRDF Importance Sampling Using a Factored Representation. <em>ACM Transactions on Graphics (Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’04)</em>, <em>23</em>(3), 496–505.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Lewis, R. R. (1994). Making Shaders More Physically Plausible. <em>Computer Graphics Forum</em>, <em>13</em>(2), 109–120.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Loop, C. (2000). <em>Managing Adjacency in Triangular Meshes</em> (Tech. Rep. No. MSR-TR-2000-24). Bellingham, WA: Microsoft Research.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Matusik, W., Pfister, H., Brand, M., &amp; McMillan, L. (2003). A Data-Driven Reflectance Model. <em>ACM Transactions on Graphics (Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’03)</em>, <em>22</em>(3), 759–769.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">McGuire, M., Dorsey, J., Haines, E., Hughes, J. F., Marschner, S., Pharr, M., &amp; Shirley, P. (2020). A taxonomy of bidirectional scattering distribution function lobes for rendering engineers.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Meyers, S. (1995). <em>More Effective C++: 35 New Ways to Improve Your Programs and Designs</em>. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Meyers, S. (1997). <em>Effective C++: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your Programs and Designs</em> (Second ed.). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Mitchell, D. P. (1996). Consequences of Stratified Sampling in Graphics. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’96: Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 277–280). New York: ACM Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Mitchell, D. P., &amp; Netravali, A. N. (1988). Reconstruction filters in computer graphics. <em>Computer Graphics (SIGGRAPH 1988 Proceedings)</em>, 22(4), 221–228. doi:<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/378456.378514">10.1145/378456.378514</a>. <span aria-label="685" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_685" role="doc-pagebreak"/></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Munkres, J. (2000). <em>Topology</em> (Second ed.). Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Muuss, M. J. (1995). Towards Real-Time Ray-Tracing of Combinatorial Solid Geometric Models. In <em>Proceedings of BRL-CAD Symposium.</em></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Oren, M., &amp; Nayar, S. K. (1994). Generalization of Lambert’s Reflectance Model. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’94: Proceedings of the 21st Annual Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 239–246). New York: ACM Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Paeth, A. W. (1990). A Fast Algorithm for General Raster Rotation. In <em>Graphics Gems</em> (pp. 179–195). Boston, MA: Academic Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Parker, S., Martin, W., Sloan, P., Shirley, P., Smits, B., &amp; Hansen, C. (1999). Interactive Ray Tracing. In <em>ACM Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics</em> (pp. 119–126). New York: ACM Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Patterson, J., Hoggar, S., &amp; Logie, J. (1991). Inverse Displacement Mapping. <em>Computer Graphics Forum</em>, <em>10</em>(2), 129–139.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Peachey, D. R. (1985). Solid Texturing of Complex Surfaces. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’85, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>19</em>(3), 279–286.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Penna, M., &amp; Patterson, R. (1986). <em>Projective Geometry and Its Applications to Computer Graphics</em>. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Perlin, K. (1985). An Image Synthesizer. <em>Computer Graphics</em>, <em>19</em>(3), 287–296. (SIGGRAPH ’85)</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Pharr, M., &amp; Hanrahan, P. (1996). Geometry Caching for Ray-Tracing Displacement Maps. In <em>Proceedings of the Eurographics Workshop on Rendering Techniques ’96</em> (pp. 31–40). London, UK: Springer-Verlag.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Pharr, M., Jakob, W., &amp; Humphreys, G. (2016). <em>Physically based rendering: From theory to implementation</em>. Morgan Kaufmann.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Pharr, M., Kolb, C., Gershbein, R., &amp; Hanrahan, P. (1997). Rendering Complex Scenes with Memory-Coherent Ray Tracing. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’97: Proceedings of the 24th Annual Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 101–108). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Phong, B.-T. (1975). Illumination for Computer Generated Images. <em>Communications of the ACM</em>, <em>18</em>(6), 311–317.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Pineda, J. (1988). A Parallel Algorithm for Polygon Rasterization. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’88, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>22</em>(4), 17–20.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Pitteway, M. L. V. (1967). Algorithm for Drawing Ellipses or Hyperbolae with a Digital Plotter. <em>Computer Journal</em>, <em>10</em>(3), 282–289.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Plauger, P. J. (1991). <em>The Standard C Library</em>. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Porter, T., &amp; Duff, T. (1984). Compositing Digital Images. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’84: Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 253–259). New York: ACM Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Reinhard,E.,Khan,E. A., Akyüz, A. O., &amp; Johnson, G. (2008). <em>Color Imaging: Fundamentals and Applications</em>. Wellesley, MA: A K Peters. <span aria-label="686" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_686" role="doc-pagebreak"/></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Riesenfeld, R. F. (1981, January). Homogeneous Coordinates and Projective Planes in Computer Graphics. <em>IEEE Computer Graphics &amp; Applications</em>, <em>1</em>(1), 50–55.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Roberts, L. (1965, May). <em>Homogenous Matrix Representation and Manipulation of N-Dimensional Constructs</em> (Tech. Rep. No. MS-1505). Lexington, MA: MIT Lincoln Laboratory.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Rogers, D. F. (1985). <em>Procedural Elements for Computer Graphics</em>. New York: McGraw Hill.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Rogers, D. F. (1989). <em>Mathematical Elements for Computer Graphics</em>.NewYork: McGraw Hill.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Rubin, S. M., &amp; Whitted, T. (1980). A 3-Dimensional Representation for Fast Rendering of Complex Scenes. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’80, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>14</em>(3), 110–116.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Salomon, D. (1999). <em>Computer Graphics and Geometric Modeling</em>. New York: Springer-Verlag.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Sbert, M. (1997). <em>The Use of Global Random Directions to Compute Radiosity. Global Monte Carlo Techniques</em> (PhD. Thesis). Universitat Politènica de Catalunya.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Schlick, C. (1994). An Inexpensive BRDF Model for Physically-Based Rendering. <em>Computer Graphics Forum</em>, <em>13</em>(3), 233–246.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Segal, M., Korobkin, C., van Widenfelt, R., Foran, J., &amp; Haeberli, P. (1992). Fast Shadows and Lighting Effects Using Texture Mapping. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’92, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>26</em>(2), 249–252.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Shannon, C. E., &amp; Weaver, W. (1964). <em>The Mathematical Theory of Communication</em>. Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Shene, C.-K. (2003). <em>CS 3621 Introduction to Computing with Geometry Notes.</em> Available from World Wide Web. (<a href="http://www.cs.mtu.edu">http://www.cs.mtu.edu/shene/COURSES/cs3621/NOTES/notes.html</a>)</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Shreiner, D., Neider, J., Woo, M., &amp; Davis, T. (2004). <em>OpenGL Programming Guide</em> (Fourth ed.). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Smith, A. R. (1995). <em>A Pixel is Not a Little Square!</em> (Technical Memo No. 6). Bellingham, WA: Microsoft Research.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Smits, B. E., Shirley, P., &amp; Stark, M. M. (2000). Direct Ray Tracing of Displacement Mapped Triangles. In <em>Proceedings of the Eurographics Workshop on Rendering Techniques 2000</em> (pp. 307–318). London, UK: Springer-Verlag.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Snyder, J. M., &amp; Barr, A. H. (1987). Ray Tracing Complex Models Containing Surface Tessellations. <em>Proceedings of SIGGRAPH ’87, Computer Graphics</em>, <em>21</em>(4), 119–128.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Sobel, I., Stone, J., &amp; Messer, R. (1975). <em>The Monte Carlo Method</em>. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Solomon, H. (1978). <em>Geometric Probability</em>. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM Press. <span aria-label="687" epub:type="pagebreak" id="pg_687" role="doc-pagebreak"/></p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Stam, J. (1999). Diffraction Shaders. In <em>SIGGRAPH ’99: Proceedings of the 26th Annual Conference On Computer Graphics And Interactive Techniques</em> (pp. 101–110). Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Stark, M. M., Arvo, J., &amp; Smits, B. (2005). Barycentric Parameterizations for Isotropic BRDFs. <em>IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics</em>, <em>11</em>(2), 126–138.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Strang, G. (1988). <em>Linear Algebra and Its Applications</em> (Third ed.). Florence, KY: Brooks Cole.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Turkowski, K. (1990). Properties of Surface-Normal Transformations. In <em>Graphics Gems</em> (pp. 539–547). Boston, MA: Academic Press.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">van Aken, J., &amp; Novak, M. (1985). Curve-Drawing Algorithms for Raster Displays. <em>ACM Transactions on Graphics</em>, <em>4</em>(2), 147–169.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Veach, E., &amp; Guibas, L. J. (1997). Metropolis light transport. <em>In Proceedings of SIGGRAPH 1997</em> (pp. 65–76). doi:<a href="https://doi.org/10.1145/258734.258775">10.1145/258734.258775</a>.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Wald, I., Slusallek, P., Benthin, C., &amp; Wagner, M. (2001). Interactive Distributed Ray Tracing of Highly Complex Models. In <em>Proceedings of the 12th Euro-graphics Workshop on Rendering Techniques</em> (pp. 277–288). London, UK: Springer-Verlag.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Walter, B., Marschner, S. R., Li, H., &amp; Torrance, K. E. (2007). Microfacet models for refraction through rough surfaces. <em>Rendering Symposium on Rendering</em>.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Watt, A. (1991). <em>Advanced Animation and Rendering Techniques</em>. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Watt, A. (1993). <em>3D Computer Graphics</em>. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Whitted, T. (1980). An Improved Illumination Model for Shaded Display. <em>Communications of the ACM</em>, <em>23</em>(6), 343–349.</p></li>
<li epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><p class="ref">Williams, A., Barrus, S., Morley, R. K., &amp; Shirley, P. (2005). An Efficient and Robust Ray-Box Intersection Algorithm. <em>Journal of Graphics Tools</em>, <em>10</em>(1), 49–54.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>